Mark Lam Artist Statement
Inspired by artists from Arthur Rimbaud to Robert Mapplethorpe who explored the essence of being an artist seeking truth through their chosen mediums, I aim to explore the meaning of creating work in a digital age. Though I cannot claim a supernal understanding of my work, I nevertheless continue through a process – a series of follies and experimentation – in search of understanding the mediation of technology on form and content.
 Early on in my undergraduate education when I studied graphic and multimedia design, I took an art history course where I gained an appreciation for the practice. Looking at craft, architecture, and materiality as a byproduct of social society transformed the way I viewed the medium as more than aesthetic guidelines. 
The latter part of my undergraduate studies saw me turn my focus to fine art and media studies, exploring the role of technology in a digital age. My mentor Greg Niemeyer – Berkeley professor of art and new media—helped me develop a sense of purpose that technology plays in art. I learned from him the enactive qualities of technology and applying it to artistic endeavors.
For the rest of my undergraduate education I pursued maker courses attempting to place emerging technology with a conceptual focus of art. I was an inaugural undergraduate fellow in the Berkeley Center for New Media and continued participated as a research assistant to develop an interactive video application as part of a performance for a Ph.D. candidate at Berkeley's Department of Theater, Dance, and Performance Studies. My undergraduate thesis project in the Art Practice Department was an interactive triptych which explored the concept of self-identification, rooted in my background in media studies and my own personal struggle of artist self-identification.
	After graduation, I continued to improve my technological craft skills, self studying and attending ITP Camp at New York University, where I was influenced by artists, journalists, and more in the pursuit of creative applications of technology.
With a re-dedication for DIY-making, creative technology, and education, I found myself in Vietnam exploring the maker community of Ho Chi Minh City. I had an opportunity to teach summer workshops and later a full semester programming course in the IT department at the Ho Chi Minh City University of Technology and Education where I lead lessons in design and web technology. 
On my free time I worked with a professor and owner of a makerspace to create an autodidactic educational community where members can lead and take workshops from their peers creating an eco-system for new ideas and knowledge in Vietnam. I was encouraged by an enthusiastic response by students and members of the community to develop the makerspace based on cooperative principles.
 	I look forward to pursuing a Masters of Fine Arts Degree to continue my discovery of the depths that emerging technologies can have on social and cultural attitudes with consideration of how new methods of making can lead to divergent ideas of what is an artistic practice. I hope to further explore new forms of self-expression using contemporary tools.

